Adding work-in-progress debugging guide. (#7)
hassanobeid1994/tr_b_causal_2020: references/debugging_guide.md

      - A minimal working example or set of steps that reproduces the failure.
      - If possible (but not required now), a simplified test example that produces the same qualitative failure.
      - Any diagnostic information (errors, execution logs, etc.) reported when the failure was observed.
      - Environment information when the failure was observed (installed packages, operating system, memory capacity, etc.)
   3. Create a new branch off the feature branch to track work on fixing the bug.
   4. Open a pull request for the new branch to the original feature branch. Register that the issue is being worked on in this pull request by referencing the issue for the bug in the text body of the pull request on github.
   5. Add a test to the suite of regression tests to reproduce this specific software failure instance. Check the test in with git.
      - See chapter 4, "Reproducing Problems" of "Why Programs Fail: A Guide to Systematic Debugging" by Morgan Kaufmann.
   6. Create an automated and simplified test case for this specific failure instance.

>       - See chapter 5, "Simplifying Problems" of "Why Programs Fail: A Guide to Systematic Debugging" by Morgan Kaufmann.

Reviewer: @timothyb0912 Wouldn't these steps be needed only if the following step is taken?

> - If possible (but not required now), a simplified test example that produces the same qualitative failure.

Author: Edited to note the difference between the simplified test and the regression test.

2. Understand how the system that is producing the failure is supposed to work.
   1. Identify and read the basic documentation related to the (relevant?) external software tools being used at or around the point of failure.
   2. Take basic trainings (e.g. online tutorials, online courses, etc.) in the external tools being used in your project.
   3. Identify, store, and read the details about major / complex algorithms that one's software is implementing.

3. Understand how the system that is producing the failure is working.
   1. What is being produced during failure?

>       Ensure that one has a debugging system in-place to identify and record the intermediate values being produced by one's software as well as which of those values are incorrect in the simplest created test case.

Reviewer: This should be available in the form of object inspector/variable explorer in one's IDE or extension to the jupyter notebook. Please correct me if I am wrong?

Author: Yep, added a clarifying sentence.

   2. When does failure occur?

>       If failure is intermittent or conditional, document what inputs, if any, cause the failure to occur rather than not.

Reviewer: I think this step could be merged with step 3.1.4. as follows: 

> Be sure to include logically likely contributors to the failure's existence (e.g. other known bugs, causes in program state / code / input, anomolies in the output or intermediate variables, poorly written code, etc.). If failure is intermittent or conditional, document what inputs, if any, cause the failure to occur rather than not.

Change suggestion for this change is below.

Author: Edited the doc to note the difference between recording the inputs that cause a failure and hypothesizing about why those inputs cause the failure or hypothesizing about where in the code the defect is.

   3. Where is the defective code?
      1. Hypothesize and record possible points where the bug could have been introduced.
         1. For each hypothesis, note its predicted observations. These observations will be tested for when attempting to falsify the hypothesis.
         2. For each hypothesis, note the empirical facts that suggest it.
         3. Set a time limit for this data and test-less work.

>          4. Be sure to include logically likely contributors to the failure's existence (e.g. other known bugs, causes in program state / code / input, anomolies in the output or intermediate variables, poorly written code, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         4. Be sure to include logically likely contributors to the failure's existence (e.g. other known bugs, causes in program state / code / input, anomolies in the output or intermediate variables, poorly written code, etc.). If failure is intermittent or conditional, document what inputs, if any, cause the failure to occur rather than not.
```

If you think this makes sense, let's delete step 2. Didn't submit a suggested change for that now though.

Author: Same comment as earlier. Edited doc to make clear the difference between noting the inputs that cause failure and hypothesizing about why those inputs cause failure or where the defective code is that causes failure when called with those inputs.

      2. For each of those hypothesized points, determine whether the point is defective.

>       3. For each defective point, determine whether that point actually changes the failure behavior.

Reviewer: Shouldn't these steps be technically part of step d. (or 4)?

Author: Edited the beginning of the sentence for step d to note the difference from steps a - c.

      4. Employ various brute-force / common search techniques to discover remaining causes of the failure. E.g.: [WIP--to be detailed.]
         1. Bisection Search
            1. Start at the beginning of a chunk of code where there is no code failure.
            2. Mark the earliest point in the code chunk where the failure has occurred.
            3. Go halfway between the two points and identify whether there are any infections (incorrect states) in the first half of the code chunk.

>             4. If infections are found, repeat steps 1 to 3 on the code chunk between the original starting point and the earliest new infection that was found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            4. If infections are found, repeat steps a to c on the code chunk between the original starting point and the earliest new infection that was found.
```
In the print out of the markdown, these sub-bullets are lettered. Just a formatting issue in the Markdown file.

Author: Changed!

            5. If infections are not found, identify whether there are any infections in the second half of the code chunk.

>             6. If infections are found in the second half of the code chunk, repeat steps 1 to 3 between the beginning point of the second half and the earliest new infection that was found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            6. If infections are found in the second half of the code chunk, repeat steps a to c between the beginning point of the second half and the earliest new infection that was found.
```
Similar to the comment above.

Author: Changed!

            7. Cease when no more infections are located.
            8. Take all infections without causally preceding infections as defect sites.
         2. (Static / Dynamic) Ancestor Tracking
            1. Start at the infected value as reported by the code failure.
            2. Determine whether static or dynamic tracking will be used  (or both). Static tracking is based purely on the source code. Dynamic tracking is based on a particular execution with a given set of arguments.
            3. Identify the ancestors of the infection.
               1. Control ancestors: These objects or lines of code control or affect the execution of the code that created the current infection.
               2. Data ancestors: These objects or lines of code contain / create / affect the data used to create the current infection.
            4. Identify whether each of the ancestors are infected.

>             5. Repeat steps 1 - 4 on each infected ancestor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            5. Repeat steps a - d on each infected ancestor.
```

Similar to the comments above.

Author: Changed!
